Class Notes - June 15
Exception is object eligible to be throwable.
IO use and behavior. 
--------------------
Collections:

Display()

Generics - 
Collection - i want to store string. YOu can store an object except for primitive types.

collection - is an object array which can grow and shrink dynamically. framework - every implementtaion is done for us.

List list = new ArrayList(); //No dat atype - type unsafe or raw. Yoi can pass anything in here.
							//Pros: Anything can be saved.
							//Cons: too taxing for JVM as it has noidea what may be coming in.
							//Type safe coding started with jdk1.5
List<String> list = new ArrayList<String>();
list1.add("...");   

Type safe coding - jobs execute faster.

Interface - is more like a contract
Iterable is an interface for collections.

Push/pop is specific to the stack.

List - array list, stack, linked list, stack, vector, abstrract array list.

Set - enforces uniqueness
List - does not

sorted set - child of set.
Hash set
Tree set


Analytics - data is kept in the hash set. Jobs are excuted to move data from the hast set to tree set.
This is done to eliminate performance degradation.

Queue - gets key values.


ArrayList:
Pros:good to get individual elements on the fly. Array list only save memory when required.
Cons: 

Threads: 
add to array list. we make a request to jvmm to perform a job. 

Vector: all methods are synchronized. until the first person uses the place, it is given to the second one.
vectors are slower but array list are bad candidates ...

Vectors are not good for high number of transactions but protect data. there is no data corruption.


Stack - push/pop

Stack, list, vector etc are classes

Queue is an interface.

Sets follow buckets - we can define .
We have to override  the hascode and equals in the user objects so that we can eliminate duplication in object values.


Map:
name/Value
not guaranteed in continuous blocks.
Not iterable...

isolated list - 


Context switch - when the time taken for processing is longer than the time slice, jvm moves on to the next thread.
Pretty much like a 4 way traffic signal ...all ways get to move.


wait
sleep
suspend


If you want to exceute Biz logic as a thread it has to be under runn().
Single flow of execution.

Thread has a start() method.
start() is  autility method used to create a parallel method.


ready queue - fifo
sjf - shortest job first. - theory/no postulate - the amount for calculating the time may be longer than exceuting the task....like the heizenberg principle in chemistry.
snooze - execute doesnt mean execute first...

suspend 	resume
wait 	notify
sleep - rest time


sleep for stipulated time
wait - there is a time....


suspended threads time out but not age.
